Add meeting minutes from 2 May 2022 (#214)
solid/authentication-panel: meetings/2022-05-02.md

## Present
* Aaron Coburn
* Abel Van den Briel
* Laurens Debackere
* elf Pavlik

---

## Announcements

### Meeting Recordings and Transcripts
* No audio or video recording, or automated transcripts without consent. Meetings are transcribed and made public. If consent is withheld by anyone, recording/retention must not occur.
* Use panel chat and repository. Queue in call to talk.

### Participation and Code of Conduct
* [Join the W3C Solid Community Group](https://www.w3.org/community/solid/join), [W3C Account Request](http://www.w3.org/accounts/request), [W3C Community Contributor License Agreement](https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/)
* [Solid Code of Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/master/code-of-conduct.md), [Positive Work Environment at W3C: Code of Ethics and Professional Conduct](https://github.com/solid/process/blob/master/code-of-conduct.md)
* If this is your first time, welcome! please introduce yourself.

### Scribes
* Aaron Coburn

---

## Agenda

### Issues

https://github.com/solid/solid-oidc/issues

### Open PRs

https://github.com/solid/solid-oidc/pulls

### Test Suite location

### Dynamic Client Registration

## Minutes

### Issues

> * AC: We talked last week about working through the backlog of the issues and have a v0.2 to submit by the end of May.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* AC: We talked last week about working through the backlog of the issues and having a v0.2 to submit by the end of May.
```

### Open PRs

* AC: Making progress moving through the open issues
* eP: Small PR submitted shortly before the meeting, clarifying terms and linking them to definitions

### Test Suite location

* AC: In the past we had [solid-oidc-tests](https://github.com/inrupt.solid-oidc-tests) in the `solid` organization. There was reorganization of the GitHub org, including moving most of the repos to other locations. Suggestion was to move it to the Inrupt organization. There also was a suggestion to move it into `solid-contrib`. I don't want to keep moving it around. We already point from the publish spec to the old link since it was recently moved. I think we can host it in the `solid/solid-oidc` repo, which will be as stable as editors draft itself. This way we wouldn't need to keep moving it around.
* eP: that makes sense to me, then we can collaborate on the code

ACTION: AC to make PR to add the test suite to the Solid-OIDC codebase

### Dynamic Client Registration

* AvdB: Noticed that Inrupt PB uses dynamic client registration (DCR) as a default, even when the issuer has disabled DCR

> * AvdB: What is the recommendation for how an app performs authentication, esp, since DCR is not part of the Solid-OIDC spec?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* AvdB: What is the recommendation for how an app performs authentication, especially since DCR is not part of the Solid-OIDC spec?
```

* eP: the Inrupt authentication client does support client identifiers
* AvdB: as a general example, is this something we can generally encourage? (client id documents). DCR is not a MUST in the spec
* AC: There are couple of issues. (1) What the flow should be and (2) what flow is used by a particular application.
* AC: In the scope of this group, we should focus on the first item by providing clear guidance on the recommended flows

> * AC: when it comes to what a particular implementation is doing it is often up to that application to choose their implementation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* AC: when it comes to what a particular implementation is doing, it is often up to that application to choose their implementation.
```

* ...: For pod-browser it might be a bug.
* eP: DCR is also problematic for client authorization. For instance, in the context of ACP, the recommended default is that there be no access. Unless the policy states "any client has access", a DCR-registered client would likely not be able to access anything.
* ...: The Interop Panel places a heavy emphasis on using a stable identifier for clients: these identifiers are used to attach access controls
* ...: in real-world scenarios, we should strongly recommend using client identifiers
* AvdB: in the examples of Inrupt PodBrowser and Penny, they use DCR by default, even in the context of the same browser session. This overloads the issuer with useless clients. Using client id documents should be the general use case

> * AC: I agree. You may be noticing the interplay between implementations and specifications. Given that Solid-OIDC didn't have stable published version for so long, there have been multiple ways to implement authentication. Up until fairly recently the client id document wasn't boradly adopted. I believe Penny was implemented around a year ago. When it was originally written, client identifiers might not be well understood. Up until very recently, we haven't had a stable spec to point to. Now, I would be interested to see where the applications will go. Client IDs provide much stronger identity for the clients.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* AC: I agree. You may be noticing the interplay between implementations and specifications. Given that Solid-OIDC didn't have stable published version for so long, there have been multiple ways to implement authentication. Up until fairly recently, the client id document wasn't broadly adopted. I believe Penny was implemented around a year ago. When it was originally written, client identifiers might not be well understood. Up until very recently, we haven't had a stable spec to point to. Now, I would be interested to see where the applications will go. Client IDs provide much stronger identity for the clients.
```

> * AvdB: Maybe penny isn't a best example but inrupt pod browser seems widely used by the community. Maybe post an issue on the Inrupt PodBrowser GitHub repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* AvdB: Maybe penny isn't a best example, but inrupt pod browser seems widely used by the community. Maybe post an issue on the Inrupt PodBrowser GitHub repository?
```

> * AC: Pod browser has very recently started to support client id documents. There are still cases where it doesn't work. For me the question is what can the AuthN panel do to improve the situation with implementations. We can have good patterns documenting how authentication flows work. This can include improving the primer. We could also provide better information about _why_ it is useful and explain why it is preffered over DCR. Nicolas is very involved with client tooling. One of the issues is that there are so many permutations of what servers support, and clients need to be able to navigate those permutations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* AC: Pod browser has very recently started to support client ID documents. There are still cases where it doesn't work. For me, the question is what the AuthN panel can do to improve the situation with implementations. We can have good patterns documenting how authentication flows work. This can include improving the primer. We could also provide better information about _why_ it is useful and explain why it is preferred over DCR. Nicolas is very involved with client tooling. One of the issues is that there are so many permutations of what servers support, and clients need to be able to navigate those permutations.
```

> * AvdB: Using the PB example since that was a common starting point. Currently, Client ID documents are a SHOULD not a MUST (same with DCR). There may be reasons not to force clients to use client id documents, how can we better encourage people to use these.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* AvdB: Using the PB example since that was a common starting point. Currently, Client ID documents are a SHOULD not a MUST (same with DCR). There may be reasons not to force clients to use client id documents. How can we better encourage people to use these?
```

* AvdB: let me know if there is anything I can do to help with this

> * AC: There are so many permutations since there are so many contexts where clients try to authenticate. Give all of them we can't always say that client MUST do it this way. We are also trying to move ecosystemm along in a step by step fashion. If we don't allow other mechanisms than we get into compatibility issues

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* AC: There are so many permutations since there are so many contexts where clients try to authenticate. Give all of them, we can't always say that client MUST do it this way. We are also trying to move ecosystem along in a step by step fashion. If we don't allow other mechanisms, then we get into compatibility issues.
```

> * eP: I'd like to consider making Client Identifiers required for an OP, otherwise it's not Solid compliant. That would also give more confidence by the client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* eP: I'd like to consider making Client Identifiers required for an OP; otherwise it's not Solid compliant. That would also allow more confidence by the client.
```

* AC: It would be helpful to add paragraph that states that OP MUST support Client ID documents.

> * ...: There may be ambiguity with regards what is and what isn't dereferencable

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ...: There may be ambiguity with regard to what is and what isn't dereferenceable.
```

ACTION: AC to clarify requirements for OP support of Client ID documents

> * AvdB: is there a case where the `client_id` value is dereferencable but _not_ a Client Id Document?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* AvdB: is there a case where the `client_id` value is dereferenceable but _not_ a Client ID Document?
```

> * AC: I think there are 2 parts. 1. If it is dereferencable, if it is 2. Fetch the document and check if it is `application/ld+json`, it must be valid JSON, it also needs to use the normative `@context`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* AC: I think there are 2 parts. (1) If it is dereferenceable; if it is, (2) fetch the document and check whether it is `application/ld+json`, for which it must be valid JSON using the normative `@context`.
```

> * ...: Let's say we have some other specification which also defines dereferencable client identifiers, not JSON-LD. When OP tries to dereference it, it would need to have condition based on the format of the client id document. Even if both are JSON-LD it could check for the `@context`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ...: Let's say we have some other specification which also defines dereferenceable client identifiers, which do not deliver JSON-LD. When OP tries to dereference it, it would need to have conditions based on the format of the client ID document. Even if both are JSON-LD, it could check for the `@context`.
```

> * AvdB: if it is required that an OP is required to dereference these client_id URIs, then it makes interop much easier to achieve.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* AvdB: if it is required that an OP dereference these client_id URIs, then interop is much easier to achieve.
```

> * eP: the only case when it's not a client identifier, it's an identifier issued by the OP, which will be pre-registered by the OP. The OP can then just check if it's one of these other formats, it can use that; otherwise, it can just dereference the URI as a client identifier.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* eP: the only case when it's not a client identifier is when it's an identifier issued by the OP, which will be pre-registered by the OP. The OP can then just check if it's one of these other formats, and if so, it can use that; otherwise, it can just dereference the URI as a client identifier.
```

* AC: This is how I implemented it.
* eP: even for static registration, an OP will still manage these identifiers
* AC: This is exactly my experience with implementation. The identifier is either one that was created by the OP, or an external one which would be a Client ID IRI.

### UMA updates

* LD: I am working with the CSS project, having trouble with DPoP during the claims pushing stage. This is unclear on the Solid-OIDC side. This could be an opportunity to specify an IRI for a DPoP-bound ID token.

> * AC: The way I've done this, in one stage you may be providing ID Token. When you push that claim it may perform validation of that ID Token. Also part of this validation is validating the DPOP binding. The part of this interaction involves DPoP header. The format is definitelly OIDC ID Token with some extra claims. One could argue that it is ID Token but also an argument could be made that it is a different claim format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* AC: The way I've done this, in one stage you may be providing ID Token. When you push that claim, it may perform validation of that ID Token. Also part of this validation is validating the DPOP binding. This part of this interaction involves the DPoP header. The format is definitely OIDC ID Token with some extra claims. One could argue that it is ID Token, but an argument could also be made that it is a different claim format.
```

* LD: My problem is mainly getting references to UMA and DPoP as normative references. DPoP defines use with access token.

> * LD: UMA doesn't define the use of DPoP, then there is nothing in the request body to tell the AS how to handle these JWTs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* LD: UMA doesn't define the use of DPoP; there is then nothing in the request body to tell the AS how to handle these JWTs.
```

* LD: In UMA, we're using an IRI but there is no link to DPoP
* eP: We have discussed having Solid-OIDC UMA as a separate specification document where this could be normatively defined along with all of the UMA details.
* LD: That would be a very good idea, which could enable other types of claims that could be provided during the claims pushing stage

> * AC: One thing that we are trying to do with UMA is normatively require use of the Authorization Server, but we don't want to limit it to UMA. There may be different approaches to Authorization Server. We try to balance those two competing needs. If one uses UMA we want to provide all the requrirements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* AC: One thing that we are trying to do with UMA is normatively require use of the Authorization Server, but we don't want to limit it to UMA. There may be different approaches to Authorization Server. We try to balance those two competing needs. If one uses UMA, we want to provide all the requirements.
```

* LD: I think Pavlik's proposal makes sense. UMA details can be in dedicated document. It could also specify the details about DPoP-bound ID Token with webid claim.
* AC: this makes a lot of sense and it really valuable feedback

### Alternative flows

* LD: One small question about the status of the alternative flow document

> * AC: We have been busy with publishing FPWD of Solid-OIDC. I think defining alternative flows is next priority. Defining it on OIDC level it may be problematic. Client credentials are OAuth2 flow not OIDC.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* AC: We have been busy with publishing FPWD of Solid-OIDC. I think defining alternative flows is next priority. Defining it on OIDC level it may be problematic. Client credentials are OAuth2 flow, not OIDC.
```
